Now in order for us to start using a redux saga we have to include it into our application so we can
do that by yarn adding the library redux saga.
And while this package is loading in we have to change up our code base a little bit to incorporate
the redux saga middleware into our store.
So let's go to our store Jeff and what we want to do is we actually want to import in create saga middleware
from redux saga.
We're also going to remove our thunk middleware because we're not going to need it anymore.
We're now replacing things with redux saga to handle our asynchronous actions inside of redux.
Now what we're going to do is we're going to make a new variable called Saga middleware using our create
saga middleware function.
And this can take an object with certain configuration settings on it that we don't need but that's
what you can do with the function.
And that's why you invoke it.
But we're going to pass the saga middleware into our middleware as array and then after applying middleware
I get called we're going to run an ad in the individual sagas that we're going to write.
So we're going to use our saga middleware right to run and inside of run we pass each individual saga.
So let's comment this out for now because we're not going to do it until we write our actual saga code
from a file architecture standpoint.
All we do with Saga is is we put them in the same redux folders that are going to handle things related
to for example our shot.
We're gonna put our shop sagas in our shop folder as you would expect so in here we're gonna make a
new shop dot saga dot J.
S and this file will hold all of our saga code related to our shop and what we want to do is we want
to move the functionality that we currently have related to this fetch collection start async action
and we want to put all this logic into our saga and we've got to do it using the almost generator function
style that sagas expect so we learn a little bit about yield and we looked at a generator functions
in the last lesson but we're going to flush it out a little bit more.
In this lesson.
So what we're going to do is we actually need to import in certain effects from sagas and these effects
allow us to do different things with either the store like creating actions or listening for actions
first thing we're gonna bring in is what's called take every and what take every does is that lessons
for every action of a specific type that we pass to it so let's just bring this in first from a redux
saga right slash affects which is the effects library where we're gonna take all these effects that
we used to compose our saga Cote we also need to import in our shop action types because we know we're
listening for specific action types
and now what we're going to do is we're just going to write our first based saga and it's going to be
a function that takes that star syntax as we saw and it's going to say Fetch collections start.
That's what the sagas can be called.
Now what this saga does with the effect is it's going to pause when ever a specific action type that
we want comes in.
So we have to make sure to yield our function right and then call our take every passing in the shot
action types dot whatever the action we want which for us will be fetch collections start has the first
parameter the second parameter that take every guess is a nother generator function that will run in
response to this take every listener.
So this is how we actually are able to trigger more code to run depending on an action type.
We need to write another generator that will then do the expected thing that we're looking for.
So I'm just going to make another one called a function fetch collections async right.
So this is going to actually be are generally a function that does the asynchronous code that we wanted
to do.
For now.
All I'm going to do with this code is I am going to console dot log something in here like I am.
Fire so here we're going to pass our fetch collections async and this is pretty much all we're doing.
Now we might get an error because we have to yield something.
So we could just yield this right our console log all generator functions must have yields in them.
Now what is the point of the yield.
I know we've seen it a couple times and we know that our functions pause whenever we hit the yield right
until we call next.
And then our functions continue as we saw our generator lesson.
But what sagas do what the saga middleware does is its whole purpose is to run these sagas all concurrently
concurrently meaning it wants to run them all together in a way that does not block the execution.
So what does that technical jargon mean.
Well imagine if we had multiple sagas that were listening right for different actions that were then
triggering these other function well we might want our code not to be waiting for each of these functions
to finish because in here we know we're going to make our asynchronous request right.
We know we're going to query the database if we're waiting for the data is come back.
We want our application to continue to run.
No problem.
It doesn't need to wait for that request to come back.
Because that would be blocking our javascript code well take every which is this saga effect actually
creates a non blocking call in order to not stop our application to continue running either other sagas
or whatever the user wants to do it doesn't pause the javascript waiting for anything inside of our
fetch collections async to come back alternatively we are also actually able to cancel these tasks that
are coming out of our function and by task I mean whenever we kick start this saga it's actually a task
that are saga Middleware is running in the background of our code to perform the action that it's supposed
to do write whatever code we write in it like say our fetch collections code if say for example the
user fired the action again fetch clutch and start again.
While the previous get collections request was still processing we want to be able to cancel that one
because we don't want to fetch that multiple times.
We only want the most recent one that we got or that the user fired and at every yield.
What's happening is that we're yielding control over this saga back to the middleware to the saga middleware
and then the saga middleware if it gets say another take every action call from here.
It can then determine whether or not to cancel any of the previous League started sagas from the other
actions that came in we can control that because of the yield.
Now I'll show you how we're gonna do it.
It's actually very easy but conceptually that's why there are these yields and we write these yields
whenever we can inside of our generator functions.
I know it's all extremely technical but the more we write it it will make sense.
I promise it'll make sense but for now just keep that in mind.
That's why we have these yields because we want to yield control of these sagas back to the library.
But let's actually throw our saga into our store where we want to run it.
So what we'll do is we will import in our fetch collection start saga from shop shop saga and dodge
it.
Some guys say this should be plural sagas
and then we just put it in this run and we uncommon to our code.
Now if we go back open up our console and go to the shop we will see that all right because our finance
star async action right we did it.
We removed our thunk middleware.
We have to remove our thunk middleware as well so get inside of our shop component.
Let's switch over this fetch collection start async to just such collection start.
We just want to use our fetch collections start method
and now all that happens is that once our fetch collections start fires are sagas code logs I am fired.
So what ended up happening if we look at our saga code our fetch collections start action came in our
saga fetch collections start was listening for this action the moment I heard it it fired off our fetch
collections async generator function and then ah I am fired got logged and that's the order that it
happened so that's pretty much sagas and how they listen for action we just write them with this format
and we use this take every effect.
There are other variations of this listener affect that slightly modify how the songs are listening
but we'll explore that later.
Right now this is just all.
This saga is doing now let's flesh out our fetch collections async saga to replace what we had before
in our thunk action.